---
layout: post
title: 3.1 Group Project Proposal and Preliminary UX Research Plan
prevurl: "units/02/04/"
prevtitle: "2.4 Team Contracts"
nexturl: "units/03/02/"
nexttitle: "3.2 Group Work & Critiques"
---

## Due in class Thursday, December 2

This is the first milestone of your yearlong project but nothing is ever set in stone as new technologies are living things, constantly changing and evolving according to the needs of our world! In fact, you will be updating your *Group Project Proposals* shortly after turning them in, as each group will present in class and receive critiques from the other Mobile Apps designers to help further refine your ideas. 

## Objectives

This assignment is intended to evaluate your ability to:
  * Work as a group to brainstorm new ideas and insights, drawing from your diverse knowledge, skillsets, and lived experiences to come up with a useful and well-planned piece of mobile software
  * Apply HCI concepts to draft a comprehensive Contextual Inquiry (CI) research plan that will yield useful, actionable data to inform your design
    * Identify the potential users, stakeholders, and anyone else whose experience must be considered in the design of your app
  * Establish equitable and healthy working habits with your group so that work is distributed evenly and everyone enjoys the process
    * Outline these norms in a Team Contract document
  * Create a GitHub website for your group that everyone can access and update
  
## Task
 
The Group Project Proposal assignment has three distinct parts. 

You should begin by creating a new website on GitHub for your project, using the [BeautifulJekyll instructions](https://github.com/daattali/beautiful-jekyll#creating-a-user-page-vs-a-project-page). It will probably be easiest for you to create a new GitHub account specifically for your project and fork the BeautifulJekyll repository to create your team website. 

Whoever is creating the main repository must invite all teammates to be [collaborators](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-user-account/inviting-collaborators-to-a-personal-repository). All group members must be able to edit the group website from their individual Github accounts.

Make sure your project website includes:

 * the name of your project group
 * the names of the members of your project group, and links to each of their personal GitHub websites
 * citations for *any* work that is not the original work of one of your group members

Once your website is set up and ready to go, begin working on the rest of the assignment. The three components of the *Group Project Proposal* are as follows:

 1. Finish up writing your *Team Contract*. This is a document that we will discuss and work on in class, in which you will define the norms surrounding your communication, division of labor, meetings, roles/responsibilities, goals, concerns, hopes, dreams, and anything else that is important to your functioning as a team.
 
 2. Review and critique each member's Individual Project Idea Pitch and revise your group project proposal accordingly. Your project group only has to turn in one proposal, but it should be something that you all work on collaboratively. You may wish to combine several ideas together, or brainstorm a new idea that fits within your group's assigned theme. Note that, at this early stage, we're mostly focused on defining the problem your group will focus on solving, without tying our ideas too tightly to any one solution! This part of the assignment is your actual *Group Project Proposal* and should take the form of:
    + One paragraph describing the problem and motivation that inspires your group project. This description should convince the reader that this is a difficult and interesting problem, worth spending a whole academic year considering. State what the problem is and why it is a problem, or describe a new idea and why it will enhance an existing application or practice.
    + In another paragraph, analyze the problem or idea to give more background and context. Do not just focus on the negative aspects of the current situation, but also identify some positive aspects that may be beneficial to retain. A few salient examples from existing systems or practices could be used to support those claims. If appropriate, consider conveying your analysis by describing a scenario that illustrates how someone might encounter and resolve the problem.
    + Design a logo that represents your team's purpose and identity, and include it on the project webpage. 
 
 3. In one paragraph, describe the people who might use your design and other stakeholders for your design. Describe the particular 3 contextual inquiry participants you plan to pursue, including some details of their background and the environment where you will observe their current practices *(Note: your target participants should be defined as specifically as possible. For example, "doctors" would not be specific enough but "pediatricians at Mount Sinai Hospital" is)*. Give enough details to convince me that you can actually find and interview your target participants over the course of one week. In another paragraph, describe how you will interact with your participants and your role in the interview. Will you observe them in their current, everyday behaviors and activities? Will you be interviewing them about recent behaviors and activities? In your two paragraphs, you should make sure to:
    + Identify 3 participants and specifically describe how you plan to gain access to meeting with them and conducting a socially distant contextual inquiry. *(Note: at least one of your three participants must __not__ be a Horace Mann student)* 
    + Specifically describe how you plan to conduct the interview in a way that is safe, socially distant, and considerate of the participant's needs and comfort
    + Demonstrate that your plan is feasible to be carried out in one week

Each group must be prepared to present their work for components 2. and 3. on Monday, November 9. You may prepare visual aids for your presentation, in the form of a slideshow or simply relevant images, or you may use your website as a visual aid. You will have 5 minutes to present your problem definition and rationale, your (tentative) proposed solution, and your contextual inquiry plan. Every group member must speak during this presentation.

Ensure your report is appropriately clear and easy to read. This includes:

 * text should be clear and concise
 * use section headings as appropriate
 * citations for any work that is not your original work 
 * check for typos, spelling, and grammar errors
