---
layout: post
title: 3.2 Group Work & Critiques
prevurl: "units/03/01/"
prevtitle: 3.1 Group Project Proposal
nexturl: "units/03/03/"
nexttitle: 3.3 Pitches & Critiques
---

## Technical Group Work & Critiques [(slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1I5B-X6cJDnudkfYxoTL51jS9kse0hpJExg005SMMfTc/edit?usp=sharing)

This presentation gives some more guidelines and tips for successful group work on technical design projects. It also gives an example scenario of a design critique and has links to some helpful articles about giving and receiving helpful design critiques. These articles are also assigned reading for next class.

## Graded Mini-homework for next class

In class today, you will begin planning a 5 minute pitch of your group project proposal with your teams. By now, you should have begun discussing what your project idea will be. It does not need to be finalized in the pitch – in fact, it's better that it not be finalized as you will be using suggestions from the critiques to inform what you write in your *Group Project Proposal*. 

Instead, prepare to present a pitch as a group (5 minutes total) in which each person speaks and in which you all explain the problem(s) you have identified as the focus of your project, the broader context of this problem within the community, the prospective user base that you have identified as the main users of your solution, and, if you have discussed a possible mobile app solution, your tentative idea for your mobile app design. On Friday, you will pair up with another team and take turns delivering your 5 minute pitches, after which you will receive a 3 minute critique from the audience team. You will then switch roles.

Your pitch should include:
  - Introduction of the team, including team name and members
  - Identification and rational of your chosen problem(s)
  - Description of your prospective user base
  - Analysis of broader context of problem and how it affects users
  - Potential mobile app solutions to the problem
  - Presentation and rationale of your project logo
  
## Readings

Also assigned for next class are these two readings about how to give and receive critiques. These are intended for undergraduate or graduate design students, so the tone may be not exactly what you're used to reading in classes. There are still a lot of interesting and useful points to be considered. Here are links to the readings:

  - ["Endless Nights – Learning From Design Studio Critique" by Jon Kolko](http://www.jonkolko.com/writingEnglessNights.php)
  - ["How to Survive a Critique" by Karen Cheng](https://www.aiga.org/how-to-survive-a-critique/)
