---
layout: post
title: 3.4 Contextual Inquiry & Task Analysis Lab
prevurl: "units/03/03/"
prevtitle: 3.3 Pitches & Critiques
nexturl: "units/04/01/"
nexttitle: 4.1 User Personas & Scenarios
---

### This lab has two milestones:
  - **Contextual Inquiry Check-in, due Monday, November 16**
  - **Contextual Inquiry & Task Analysis Review, due Friday, November 20**

**Note:** All names of participants should be replaced with psuedonyms or a single first initial in all documents you submit to me. Even if your study seems harmless, it's important to protect the identity of your participants.

## Milestone 1: Contextual Inquiry Check-in
### Due Monday, November 16

Complete at least one contextual inquiry prior to this check-in. You hopefully learned something about the needs of people who might use your design, but also about how to conduct a contextual inquiry.

Describe your first inquiry:

  - Who you observed or interviewed, their background, and the environment.
  - Any special prompting/instruction you used.
  - What did you learn?
  - What tasks, problems, or opportunities did you uncover?
  - Did you encounter any difficulties establishing rapport or getting the information you need?
  
Discuss what information and insights you will be pursuing in your next inquiries now that you have completed at least one. I fully expect changes will be necessary, as inquiries can be difficult to get right and often important topics are left unresolved.

  - What are your plans for the remaining inquiries?
  - How do you plan to change your protocol based on what you learned in your first inquiry?
  
**Remember:** Your submission should not contain any real names of inquiry participants. All names should be replaced with psuedonyms or a single initial to protect the participants' identities.

**Submission Instructions:** No more than one page of text (~500 words). Post your team's _Contextual Inquiry Check-in_ to a page on your Project Website. One team member should turn in a link to the appropriate page on your Project Website as a submission for the _Contextual Inquiry Check-in_ assignment on the Google Classroom.

**Grading:** There are two sections of your _Contextual Inquiry Check-in_, the description of your first inquiry and your plans for the remaining inquiries. The grade for the check-in will be added to your total grade for the _Contextual Inquiry & Task Analysis Review_. Each section of your _Contextual Inquiry Check-in_ will receive a grade on a 1-4 scale as follows:

0 = did not submit

1 = very incomplete; sections missing

2 = some sections are missing necessary information; on the right track, but sloppy

3 = lacking some analysis, but generally comprehensive and well-written

4 = every section is complete, clear, convincing, and neat

## Milestone 2: Contextual Inquiry Review & Task Analysis
### Due Friday, November 20

Complete all three of your contextual inquiries (or design research methods). Discuss your process and what you learned:
  - Who you observed or interviewed, their background, and the environment.
  - Any special prompting/instruction you used.
  - Note anything unique about each inquiry and comment on the rationale behind these events.

Across the three inquiries, you should expect some emergence of common themes, problems, and practices. You should meet with your group members to compile your data surrounding these common themes, problems, and practices. We will be beginning to create affinity diagrams in class. While you are not required to complete your group's affinity diagram beyond what gets done in class, you may wish to do so as it will help you organize your thoughts to better answer the following questions regarding themes of your inquiries.
  - Identify high level themes the participants share in their practices. These would be the headings of different groupings in your affinity diagrams.
  - Do these themes, problems, and practices suggest tasks to important to design for?
  - Describe your process for identifying these themes.
  - Include a photo of your group's affinity diagram, even if it is unfinished.
  
If you are having trouble identifying high level themes and problems from your inquiries, it may be a sign that you need to run an additional inquiry. You are required to run three inquiries, but you are not limited to only running three. These inquiries are critical for setting the foundation of your project, so ensure that you have strong findings from your inquiries before moving forward!

## Task Analysis Questions

The final component of your _Contextual Inquiry Review_ requires you to provide brief answers to the following questions. These should help you begin to identify tasks essential to your design.

  1. Who is going to use the design?
  2. What tasks do they now perform?
  3. What tasks are desired?
  4. How are the tasks learned?
  5. Where are the tasks performed?
  6. What is the relationship between the person and data?
  7. What other tools does the person have?
  8. How do people communicate with each other?
  9. How often are the tasks performed?
  10. What are the time constraints on the tasks?
  11. What happens when things go wrong?
  
**Submission Instructions:** No more than four pages of text (4\*500 words):
  - summary of key findings or takeaways (one paragraph at beginning)
  - contextual inquiry participants: who did you interview and why, how did it go, specific takeaways from each interview (less than one page)
  - contextual inquiry themes & process: how did you conduct the interviews and why, how did it go, go into more depth about specific takeaways from each interview (less than one page)
  - task analysis questions (less than two pages, you may write very brief answers as long as they effectively answer the question in a full, grammatically correct sentence)
  
**Grading:** 

Each of these 4 components will be graded on a 1-4 scale as follows:

0 = did not submit

1 = very incomplete; sections missing

2 = some sections are missing necessary information; on the right track, but sloppy

3 = lacking some analysis, but generally comprehensive and well-written

4 = every section is complete, clear, convincing, and neat

Your _Contextual Inquiry Check-in_ grade (which is out of 8) will be added to your total score for the _Contextual Inquiry & Task Analysis Review_

**Points -> Letter Grade**

23-24 = A+

20-22 = A

17-19 = A-

15-16 = B+

11-14 = B

8-10 = C

7 = D
