---
layout: post
title: 1.2 Design Thinking in Everyday Life
prevurl: "units/01/01/"
prevtitle: "1.1 Background and Setting Up Your Website"
nexturl: "units/01/03/"
nexttitle: "1.3 Human Centered Design"
---
These topics are foundational to everything else we will be doing in this course.

## Design Thinking [(slides)][d slides]
Design thinking is a discipline that combines various cognitive strategies and processes to develop and test design concepts. Design thinking concepts can be applied to any design process, not just mobile apps.

> ⊕ defining problems/ideation, affordances, signifiers, mapping, feedback

> ⊕ starting to think about user experience research techniques

## Homework: Good vs. Bad Design Writeup
Find two examples of design – one good and one bad. The examples should be in tech but can be software or something physical in society. For each example, take a screenshot of the part of the design that you are evaluating (if you are writing about something that is not software, find an image of the product/design) and write a short paragraph (4-6 sentences) explaining what about that design is either good or bad. Publish your write-up as a post on your website with the title "Good vs. Bad Design". The screenshot/image that you use should appear in the post with the description of each image appearing below the image.

## Readings
I am also asking that you read both of these articles for next class. While reading, think carefully about what aspects of design thinking are being ignored, whether purposefully or not, in these two examples. Try to think of ways to compare and contrast the two situations, as well as any ideas for ways that planning and testing with design thinking concepts and strategies can help to avoid building harmful technology.

▲[Twitter article][Twitter article](This is the same article that appears in unit 1.3 as the first article, some of you have already read it – those of you who haven't yet, please take a few minutes to read about this situation)

▲[Civvl Eviction App article][c article]

> • [This is Civvl's website][c website]


[Twitter article]: https://www.theverge.com/2020/9/20/21447998/twitter-photo-preview-white-black-faces
[c article]: https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/ep435n/gig-economy-company-launches-uber-but-for-evicting-people
[c website]: https://civvl.com/
[d slides]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UgYn1TdFsGX8pmkt3Mt6JJzALSy8ko3H-vkzOJ1BLM4/
