---
layout: post
title: 1.4 Fly On the Wall Lab
prevurl: "units/01/03/"
prevtitle: "1.3 Human Centered Design"
nexturl: "units/02/01/"
nexttitle: "2.1 Introduction to Human Computer Interaction"
---

Fly On the Wall observations are exactly what they sound like! What can _you_ observe when you are like a fly on the wall in a given situation? More specifically, what kinds of problems can you observe people dealing with in their day to day lives that you could imagine mitigating or solving with mobile app technology? 

## Objectives
This lab is intended to evaluate your ability to:
  * collect empirical, observational data to aid in defining a clear problem for the ideation stage of your app design process
    * begin to determine the environment, users, and behavior you wish to study during the ideation stage of your UX research
    * recognize and capture any oddities or outliers that you notice
  * write a blog post using Markdown
    * analyze your observations and notes methodically, to formulate insights and questions
  * update your website with the new post using GitHub

## Task
Write a blog post for your website with responses to the following:
  1. Summarize the observations you recorded about the environment, people, objects, and interactions of daily life at Horace Mann. Note the different potential users that you observed and the behaviors/interactions that you witnessed. Make sure to describe the broader context of both the environment and the individual users themselves.
  2. Analyze the observations and notes you described in your response to number 1 to formulate insights, questions, and theories about the environment and users that you observed. Use a framework such as [AEIOU](http://dlrtoolkit.com/aeiou/), or simply form associations by clustering different observations in groups based on categories that you define. This [AEIOU worksheet](http://www.drawingideasbook.com/images/AEIOU_worksheets.pdf) may also be helpful.
  3. Describe your process in finding these answers. Include details such as **who you worked with**, what methods you tried, what worked or didn't work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Feel free to attach images, screenshots, etc to elaborate on your response!

Submit your Python file using Google Classroom. You can also find the rubric there.


## Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **write your own blog post**! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.
