---
layout: post
title: Design Check-In Lab
prevurl: "units/05/01/"
prevtitle: Storyboarding & Wireframing
nexturl: "units/05/03/"
nexttitle: Usability Testing Lab
---

### Due in class February 17

In the last assignment of first semester, you identified and described six important tasks that are exceedingly relevant to your design problem. In class, you and your group sketched out three different possible designs for your software solution that afford some of these tasks. Teams will now brainstorm and sketch three (four if you're CleanHM) very different preliminary designs for your interface:
  
  - Just like the initial sketches you did in our in-class activity, each potential design must support at least four of your group's six tasks from the _Task Review_ although the design sketches do not necessarily need to all support the same four tasks.
  
  - Sketch only key aspects that illustrate functionality when utilized in your four tasks. While it's possible your design may support additional tasks, you should not illustrate the entire design. Focus on illustrating a unique idea for a design that can aid users as they seek to accomplish your four chosen tasks.
  
  - These should be rough sketches on paper, including text and symbols to illustrate interactions and relationships between interface components and function (e.g. arrows showing a transition from one page to another).
  
  - All teams should start by brainstorming as a group. Refer to the critiques from other teams of the sketches you chose to present in that activity. You may want to use your in-class sketches as inspiration or even as a basis for a design, but you may not reuse the same sketches for this assignment. Review the brainstorming tips on Google Classroom to structure your brainstorm.
  
The purpose of these sketches is to explore the design space before you lock yourself into a single design. They must demonstrate significant consideration of substantially different approaches to your problem.

_Note_: while this is a course on mobile software design, your initial designs can span different technologies. Don't be afraid to think outside of the box! Try to think of different ways to organize and prioritize the various tasks that you're supporting. Each design should be as unique as possible and should be defined by the aspects that make it unique.

You can also consider reserving one of your designs to be a creative 'moonshoot' – have fun with ideas and don't be afraid to shoot for the stars!

## Submission Instructions

You will be editing the _Task Review_ page of your website so that it displays your work on these preliminary design sketches. You should update any titles accordingly. 

For this assignment, you will post no more than four pages (~2000 words, but half of this will be for your task descriptions) on your project website:

  - six task descriptions (one paragraph for each task, updated as needed from prior assignment, no more than ~1000 words)
  
  - for each of the three initial designs:
    
    - one paragraph describing the high level idea of the design (one paragraph)
    
    - scanned images of the design (sketches on paper)
    
    - a description of how to complete each of the four tasks supported by the design in the sketch (e.g. a list of steps, 1-3 sentences per task)
    
Images do not count towards the word limit and are therefore free – embed as many images as you would like throughout your webpage, just make sure they are near the text that references them. The page/word limit applies to the approximate text you would have if all images were removed.

**Be prepared to discuss your design sketches in class – I will provide a worksheet to help in critiquing, be sure to take notes during critique.**

## Grading

This milestone will be graded on a scale of 12 points:

  - each sketch and accompanying description will be graded on a 0-4 scale (0-3 for each of Clean HM's four sketches)
  
  - designs and writing will be evaluated based on _creativity/uniqueness_, appropriate fidelity (not too hi-fi), practicality of design, and evidence used to support selection of that design (i.e. those tasks). Try your best not to just digitize existing analog processes but actually conceive of new, improved ways for users to do things!
