---
layout: post
title: Usability Testing Lab
prevurl: "units/05/02/"
prevtitle: Design Check-In Lab
nexturl: "units/05/04/"
nexttitle: Hi-Fi Prototyping
---

This milestone consists of two parts: 
  
  - Part 1: decide on a final design and build an initial prototype
  - Part 2: perform Usability Tests with real participants using your prototype

## Part 1: Design Review – 1x2
### Due Friday, March 4

From your design sketches, either select one or combine the best design elements from multiple sketches to produce one design that you will refine for the remainder of this course. Then select two tasks that will be the focus of your design refinement. The selected tasks need to be representative of the user experience of using your design.

Prepare one paragraph as an intro to your design choice. Draw upon feedback from your critiques and from data from your contextual inquiry. 
  
  - Why this design? Why these two tasks?
  - What makes this design best suited to the people for whom you are designing?
  - Why are these tasks more crucial than others?

Try your best to convey a strong rationale of why you chose the design you did and why you are focusing on these two tasks in particular. This does not mean these are the only tasks supported by your design, but they are the two that you are identifying as the most central, crucial to the design's functioning.

Once you've written this introductory paragraph, work on sketching a paper prototype and/or storyboard for your design. Once you have this initial sketch done, create a first draft of your design wireframe/prototype on Figma.

Your prototype design will consist of work done on paper, then scanned or photographed, which clearly indicates the functionality of the design and what the interface will be like, conveying the major aspects of the design in enough detail that a person not in your group can understand how the design supports each task. Your prototype will also consist of a first draft Figma version of this paper sketch, which you will work on making as interactive as possible.

As needed, annotate your sketches by adding descriptions and/or annotations that explicitly describe aspects of the design and how your two central tasks are supported.

### Submission Instructions

No more than 500 words (two pages of text) posted as a link to your Project Website on Google Classroom. I expect closer to 250 words (your introduction describing your design and two tasks) but you may also include descriptions/annotations about your prototype. 

Images do not count towards the word limit and are therefore free – embed as many images as you would like throughout your webpage, just make sure they are near the text that references them. The page/word limit applies to the approximate text you would have if all images were removed.

### Grading

This milestone will be graded on a completeness basis with qualitative feedback addressing:

  - Rationale for Choosing a Design Focus
  - Understanding of Design and Two Tasks
  - Paper Sketch/Storyboard
  - Digital Prototype First Draft

## Part 2: Usability Testing
### Due Thursday, April 7

Complete three usability tests with your digital prototype, addressing any incidents that occur in each usability test before the next test. Your prototype should be slightly different after each usability test and should only be finalized after you have analyzed the data from your third test. 

Your deliverable for this milestone is to present the results of your three usability tests and your final paper prototype:

  - Write up the results of your three usability tests. Describe each test, the participant, the environment in which the test was conducted, why you chose this specific participant and environment, the test protocol and procedure, and the roles of each team member who participated in the test (ideally at least two will participate in each test). In this section, briefly discuss revisions you made in your protocols/process for usability testing as well as revisions made to your prototype in between usability tests.
  - Adding to the table you created for your usability testing check-in, present a complete table or list of results from your three usability tests. For any critical incidents observed during the tests include:
    - An image of the relevant interface from the prototype
    - Description of the incident (remember that incidents can be positive or negative)
    - For negative incidents, the severity of the issue (your team should decide this)
    - For negative incidents, an image/explanation of any revision(s) implemented in response
  - Submit clear, detailed images of your final paper prototype, after making revisions informed by this process. Include an overview image of the whole prototype and detailed images showing each interface. Organize the detailed images of specific components in the order they would be used to accomplish your two central tasks: you should have a section of images for each of the two tasks with images and captions detailing how the design would be used to accomplish the respective tasks.
  - Lastly, write on paragraph discussing 2-4 revisions that you consider the most salient/important modifications made to your paper prototype through this process. Be explicit about how these revisions were based on issues identified during heuristic evaluation, critiques, and/or usability testing. These issues may already be included in the above list, but discuss them in more detail and explain why detecting and fixing them is important to your design.

### Submission Instructions

No more than 1,500 words (three pages of text) posted as a link to your Project Website on Google Classroom.

Images do not count towards the word limit and are therefore free – embed as many images as you would like throughout your webpage, just make sure they are near the text that references them. The page/word limit applies to the approximate text you would have if all images were removed.

### Grading

This milestone will be graded on a completeness basis with qualitative feedback addressing:

  - Discussion of Usability Tests and Procedure
  - Issues Identified During Testing, Revisions Made in Response
  - Updated Images of Paper Prototype
  - Discussion of Key Revisions in Design
