---
layout: post
title: Design Manifestos
prevurl: "units/06/02/"
prevtitle: HCI Ethics
nexturl: "units/06/04/"
nexttitle: User Experience Design Review
---

### Due in class Thursday, June 2

As you and your group work to finish your design project and the year comes to a close, I'm asking you to reflect on all of the work you've accomplished throughout the year in a single design manifesto. 

The typical format for this manifesto would be a post on your personal Github website (not your group's project page), structured as a Medium-style blog post [(click here if unfamiliar with Medium style posts)](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fthinkgrowth.org%2Fhow-to-write-for-medium-57c0f465061a&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHCuS8kl58t524zCKqKJdsa4beMiQ). However, you can be as creative and unique as you would like with the actual form your manifesto takes – whether a post on your website, a clickable story/game, a video, an Instagram/Twitter, a handwritten/drawn document, or something else! Just let me know your idea and, most likely, I'll be all for it.

A manifesto is "A public declaration of principles, policies, or intentions, especially of a political nature", and this document should work as a list of the 5+ most important points of your design philosophy learned in this class, why those points are important (evidence!), and specifics for how you might apply these concepts in the future.

### Questions to Consider

Before you begin writing your design manifesto/philosophy, think carefully about the following questions:

  - How did the design process impact the decisions you made? What were the most valuable parts of the process? What were the limitations to the design process that you encountered?
  - How did this differ across different modalities (methods, environments, situations, etc.)? For example, maybe user testing with your prototypes was more illuminating in one modality than another.
  - When did expectations not meet reality?
  - Were there some methods that were more challenging than others? What did you learn from this process?
  - How do you think things we all use should be designed? Did you have opinions on this before taking this class? Have your opinions on this question changed?

Design is rarely divorced from our personal lens - our experiences, our expertise, our beliefs. These aspects all mold the applications of technology that you find exciting, pointless, interesting, boring, helpful, harmful, etc.

Together, these questions should guide you to at **least 5 main points that define your design process**. At least one of these points should include a personal code of ethics (perhaps with sub-points), and another point should encompass your approach to accessibility in design. To do this, imagine you must translate the processes/skills you gathered in this course to an _entirely new scenario_ (let’s say Virtual Reality, or Data Visualization, just as some random examples). How would you apply this manifesto premise to this new context? Why would you want to? You won't be writing about these examples, but considering how to apply your design philosophy in new contexts will help you make your points generalizable.

Your takeaways should be evidence-driven. That means that when you discuss these topics, you should frequently reference (and show examples of!) the project that you completed or cite relevant readings, stories, and figures/data.

At least one of your main points should include your personal code of ethics and specific approach to incorporating accessibility for designing technological solutions. The remaining 3 or more guiding principles of your manifesto are up to you. Your manifesto doesn't need to be structured as a list of principles and you don't even need to name them specifically in the manifesto but you should be able to identify the core principles when asked and explain how your manifesto declares these points.

### Requirements

No more than three pages (~1500 words) of text. Images/figures do not count towards word limit, nor does text accompanying images, so you can include as many as you would like.

Your manifesto should be cohesive in quality. There should be an introduction, a body, and a conclusion. Does it read like 5 scattered ideas or do they come together to form a central thesis? Tell a convincing story! Sub-headings will make your narrative clearer. Think beyond just "Design Research is Important" to why it's important, or a more generalized statement for applying it in the future.

You should have a rich store of multimedia from your semester - videos, photos, etc. Each of your takeaways should be informed by the experiences from your project, so include visual references and/or videos to what you are talking about. Your manifesto should also be supported by real design principles and ideas that you encountered throughout the readings this semester. Link to those pieces when you discuss them! Feel free to also include materials from other classes or even media that you've discovered on your own.

### Submission and Grading

Before you start writing, read all of the short manifesto links and pick at least one of the longer manifesto documents to read, all of which will be posted on the Google Classroom post for this assignment. We will begin reading and discussing these example manifestos in class.

Post as a link to your Individual Course Webpage on the Google Classroom post for this assignment.

This assignment will be graded on four categories:

  1. **Clarity & Narrative**
  2. **Persuasive Manifests**
  3. **Evidence Support**
  4. **Content/Design**
