---
layout: post
title: User Experience Design Review
prevurl: "units/06/03/"
prevtitle: Design Manifestos
---

### Due Friday, May 28

You have spent the school year compiling data on our community and the unique problems presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, identifying potential design solutions to problems you've observed, and refining your designs alongside your peers and with the help of members of our community. Now it's time to package your work in a way that shows off your knowledge, wisdom, efforts, and unique design philosophies.

For the final deliverable in your Mobile Apps journey, prepare a single-page 'pitch webpage' documenting your process of getting the design right. This page should provide context and describe motivation for your final design using evidence collected throughout the year. Briefly summarize each of the previous steps (deliverables) of this project as motivation and provide links to the in-depth write-ups you did for each deliverable. The previous deliverable posts you created can be placed into an 'Appendix', which can be a tab on the main page or a section at the bottom of your 'pitch page'. 

Basically, I'm asking you to redesign your website so that it contains one main page that effectively showcases and pitches your project to an average reader. Your original write-ups for the various deliverables can be linked throughout the writing on your main page, as well as in an 'Appendix'. Your page should be structured as a report of your UX research and design process, structured according to the below outline.

Envision this page as a UX Design Project portfolio webpage. [This](https://www.chloefan.com/#/mm-expedited-claims/) is a professional example of a similar type of page that documents the overall design process, including links to further reading. You are encouraged to get creative and customize the design of your page, as long as you make sure you're documenting your group's UX process and findings!

  1. **Title**
     * A short, creative, marketable title capturing the main idea
  2. **Each team member's name and role**
  3. **Problem Definition and Proposed Solution Overview**
     * A concise statement of the problem you identified, and evidence to support why it's a problem, as well as a brief synopsis of your proposed solution. You can reuse language from your initial report of the problem, but you should also update it to reflect the current form of your design.
  4. **Contextual Inquiry Results & Key Tasks**
     * Briefly outline your testing process, including your method and your participants. This process probably evolved some in the course of your project. Include a retrospective on how you refined your process, separate from how you refined your design. Discuss your process of identifying the central tasks that users of your design will seek to accomplish.
  5. **Initial Paper Prototype**
     * Present your original paper prototype, as a baseline against which this report will present your iteration. Describe the critical aspects of your design, including your two primary tasks.
  6. **Usability Testing Process & Results**
     * Outline your testing process, including your procedure and your participants. Discuss how your process evolved throughout the testing. Summarize the results of your paper prototype testing and refinement. Present what you learned about each version of your prototype and what changes you made as a result. This will include changes from your heuristic evaluation, usability testing, and in-class design critiques.
  7. **Final Paper Prototype**
     * Present your final version of your paper prototype, as you did for your initial paper prototype above. Convey the critical aspects of your design, including your two primary tasks.
  8. **Digital Mockup & Testing Results**
     * Present your digital mockup. Convey the critical aspects of your design, including how users will accomplish your two primary tasks (one short paragraph per task). Briefly discuss any changes you needed to make as you switched to your digital tools instead of paper. Outline the procedure and describe the participant(s) of your final round of testing and the motivation behind choosing the specific UX research method you chose for this final stage. 
  9. **Discussion**
     * In more depth, discuss the results of your last round of testing with the digital mockup. Reflect upon and discuss your project as a whole and the results of your extensive research. For example:
       * What did you learn from the process of iterative design?
       * How did the process shape your final design?
       * Do you think you could have used more, or fewer, iterations on your design?
       * If you were to pursue this project further, and plan to actually implement and release it to the public, what would you want to do? What future research would be necessary?
  10. **Appendix**
      * Include links to all previous milestone write-ups with labels here. 

### Submission Instructions & Grading

For this final milestone, submit one link to your group project website. Your single page design pitch webpage should include no more than three pages of text (~1500 words), following the above outline. Images do not count towards your word limit and are effectively free, so include as many as you want! Images should be embedded in the webpage near the text that references them. The word limit only applies to text that would be there if the images were all removed. Try to avoid repetitive text.

Names of all participants must be replaced with pseudonyms in all documents accessible on your website. Remember to always protect anonymity, even if the particular case seems harmless.

Groups should be prepared to present their page to the class. You need not prepare a formal presentation, but you should meet as a group to plan how each member will contribute to a 10 minute showcase, in which you will be walking through your Design Review, presenting your digital mockup, demoing the digital mockup, and answering questions about your process and final design. 

This milestone will be graded on a scale of 24 points according to six categories, each graded on a 0-4 point scale:

  1. **Title, Members & Roles, Problem and Solution Overview**
  2. **Contextual Inquiry Results, Task Definition, and Initial Paper Prototype**
  3. **Usability Testing Process & Results, Final Paper Prototype**
  4. **Digital Mockup and Final Round of UX Research**
  5. **Discussion**
  6. **Presentation**
