---
layout: post
title: "2.1 Individual Project Idea Pitches"
prevurl: "units/01/04/"
prevtitle: "1.4 Fly On the Wall Lab"
nexturl: "units/02/02/"
nexttitle: "2.2 UX Research Methods in HCI"
---

# Due in class on Tuesday, October 27

Prepare a one minute pitch describing your idea for a mobile application solution to a problem that you have identified within the Horace Mann community. The problem you identify must be one that is defined based on insights gained in your fly on the wall observations and your brainstorming sessions from Friday's class. 

Come to class prepared with notes describing the problem you have identified and the mobile app solution that you have imagined. If you would like to use a script for your pitch, you may do so but you cannot read directly from a piece of paper. For this reason, I strongly suggest using notes instead of a word-for-word script. 

Your pitch should follow a generally standard narrative: 

You should begin by defining the problem you have identified. Support your description of the problem by referring to the observational data and analysis from your fly on the wall lab and brainstorming that led you to identify this as an interesting and worthwhile problem. You should then describe your proposed solution in terms of the problem itself, taking care to note how your solution responds directly to the problem and takes into account the needs of users.

Your pitches should be clear, creative, informative and engaging. 

Everyone should read [this article](https://deardesignstudent.com/how-to-pitch-a-project-4a391f7cf3b3) on how to prepare and deliver a quality pitch. Keep in mind that this article is intended for an audience of undergraduate or graduate design students, not high schoolers. There are some technical terms/business jargon in here that you do not need to worry about. The key points that are relevant to you are the ones that describe how to confidently prepare and deliver an engaging pitch that will be capture the attention of your audience – these are the ones you should take to heart when preparing your individual project idea pitch.
