---
layout: post
title: "2.2 Individual Project Idea First Draft & In-Class Pitch"
prevurl: "units/02/01/"
prevtitle: "2.1 Front End Design In-Class Activity"
nexturl: "units/02/03/"
nexttitle: "2.3 UX Research Methods in HCI"
---

# Due in class on Friday, October 29 
# (Final Draft due in class on Friday, November 12)

## Objectives
This activity is intended to:
  * Showcase your ideas for relevant problems related to our theme of community engagement that you have observed within the Horace Mann community
  * Draw connections between observational data, insights gained from analysis of the data, and actionable problem solving ideas
  * Hone your skills as a communicator and presenter of observational data and the ideas you have pulled from that data

To be clear, this activity is _not_ intended to:
  * Be an idea for an app
  * Showcase any specific ideas for software or technology
  * Solve the world's problems

## Task
Write one (1) paragraph describing the design problem you have observed, during Fly on the Wall or otherwise, and the motivation behind choosing this particular problem. State what the problem is and why it is a problem, or describe a new idea and why it will enhance existing practices. Make sure to explicitly state how it relates to the theme of community action and/or community engagement. In the last couple sentences of your paragraph, or in a second paragraph, analyze the problem or idea to give more background and context. 

Your paragraph(s) should be at least 5-6 sentences in length and should not exceed 500 words. Be as creative as you can – think outside of the box but make sure that your ideas are drawing from real evidence and observations that you have taken from this community. Make your points even more effective by explicitly referencing evidence and analysis from your Fly on the Wall write-up.

Do not just focus on the negative aspects of the current situation, but also identify some positive aspects that may be beneficial to retain. Do not start with a focus on concrete one-time tasks (e.g., logging into your account). Instead identify problems & tasks in long-lived activities that span many different social or technological contexts within the HM community. A few salient examples from existing systems or practices could be used to support those claims. If appropriate, you may conduct this analysis by describing a scenario that illustrates how someone might encounter and resolve the problem.

Prepare a 1.5 minute pitch describing the problem or problem space that you have identified within our community. The problem you identify must be one that is defined based on insights gained in your Fly on the Wall observations and discussions/brainstorming sessions done in class. The pitch should be short and sweet, describing the problem in an accessible way and also providing some motivation/evidence for why you chose this problem. The goal of a good pitch is to convince the audience that what you're saying is valid and worthwhile.

Come to class prepared with a first draft write-up describing the problem you have identified and your motivation, as well as any notes you may need for delivering your pitch. If you would like to use a script for your pitch, you may do so but you cannot read directly from a piece of paper. For this reason, I strongly suggest using notes instead of a word-for-word script. 

## Tips for Pitching Effectively
Your pitch should follow a generally standard narrative: 

 1. You should begin by defining the problem you have identified. 
 2. Next, support your description of the problem by referring to the observational data and analysis from your fly on the wall lab and in-class brainstorming that led you to identify this as an interesting and worthwhile problem. 
 3. Discuss next steps such as what else you would want to find out before designing a possible solution to your problem.
 4. All of these steps should be as convincing as possible – your goal is to sway the audience to agree with you (you can pretend as though you're writing a pitch to potential investors for this project).

Your pitches should be clear, creative, informative and engaging. 

Remember that you only have 1.5 minutes to speak, so make sure that you practice and time yourself. You should spend most of the pitch defining the problem you have identified and supporting your statements with data from your and your classmates' fly on the wall observations.

Everyone should read [this article](https://deardesignstudent.com/how-to-pitch-a-project-4a391f7cf3b3) on how to prepare and deliver a quality pitch. Keep in mind that this article is intended for an audience of undergraduate or graduate design students, not high schoolers. There are some technical terms/business jargon in here that you do not need to worry about. The key points that are relevant to you are the ones that describe how to confidently prepare and deliver an engaging pitch that will be capture the attention of your audience – these are the ones you should take to heart when preparing your individual project idea pitch.

## Deliverables
One (1) first draft of your _Individual Project Proposal_ write-up (<500 words), in which you define your chosen problem and state your motivation, and one (1) 1.5 minute pitch of your chosen problem, showcasing why it is a legitimate problem and why it is worth researching in a convincing and engaging short speech.

For your final draft, please write up the final version of your _Individual Project Proposal_ after making all necessary revisions. Your proposal should have a title and should be no more than one page in length (500 words or less) and should be published as a post on your personal website. It should be formatted with a title for your proposal and one or more separate paragraphs detailing the proposal. While there is no exact minimum length, your proposal needs to accomplish everything listed under the 'Task' heading for this assignment.
