---
layout: post
title: 2.3 Group Project Proposal and Preliminary UX Research Plan
prevurl: "units/02/02/"
prevtitle: "2.2 UX Research Methods in HCI"
nexturl: "units/03/01/"
nexttitle: "3.1 Affinity Diagrams"
---

## Due next week, Friday, November 6

This is the first milestone of your yearlong project and, in many ways, can feel like a make-or-break moment. You are working with your team for the first time and you are drafting a proposal for the idea that you will spend the rest of the academic year testing, implementing, and testing again. While this is a momentous occasion, it is by no means make-or-break. We will be iteratively returning to the ideas, insights, and action plans outlined in your *Group Project Proposal* and continually improving and updating your projects based on the results we gain from testing. Technology is a living thing, it changes as the needs of humans change, and your designs will be no exception. Have fun with this proposal – be creative and put yourself into what you write as a group – knowing the whole time that none of this is final and that no piece of software is ever "finished".

## Objectives

This assignment is intended to evaluate your ability to:
  * Work as a group to brainstorm new ideas and insights, drawing from your diverse knowledge, skillsets, and lived experiences to come up with a useful and well-planned piece of mobile software
  * Apply HCI concepts to draft a comprehensive User Experience (UX) research plan that will yield useful, actionable data to inform your design
    * Identify the potential users, stakeholders, and anyone else whose experience must be considered in the design of your app
  * Establish equitable and healthy working habits with your group so that work is distributed evenly and everyone enjoys the process
    * Outline these norms in a Team Contract document
  * Create a GitHub website for your group that everyone can access and update
  
# Task
 
The Group Project Proposal assignment has three distinct parts. 

You should begin by creating a new website on GitHub for your project, using the [BeautifulJekyll instructions](https://github.com/daattali/beautiful-jekyll#creating-a-user-page-vs-a-project-page). It will probably be easiest for you to create a new GitHub account specifically for your project and fork the BeautifulJekyll repository to create your team website. 

Whoever is creating the main repository must invite all teammates to be [collaborators](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-user-account/inviting-collaborators-to-a-personal-repository). All group members must be able to edit the group website from their individual Github accounts.

Once your website is set up and ready to go, begin working on the rest of the assignment. The three components of the *Group Project Proposal* are as follows:

 1. Finish up writing your *Team Contract*. This is a document that we will discuss and begin working on in class, in which you will define the norms surrounding your communication, division of labor, meetings, roles/responsibilities, goals, concerns, hopes, dreams, and anything else that is important to your functioning as a team.
 
 2. Review the feedback you received on your Individual Project Idea Pitch and revise your group project proposal accordingly. Your project group only has to turn in one proposal, but it should be something that you all work on collaboratively. You may wish to combine several ideas together, or brainstorm a new idea that fits within your group's assigned theme. Note that, at this early stage, we're mostly focused on defining the problem your group will focus on solving, without tying our ideas too tightly to any one solution! This part of the assignment is your actual *Group Project Proposal* and should take the form of:
    + One paragraph describing the problem and motivation that inspires your group project. This description should convince the reader that this is a difficult and interesting problem, worth spending a semester considering. State what the problem is and why it is a problem, or describe a new idea and why it will enhance an existing application or practice.  Creativity is very important at this stage!
    + In another paragraph, analyze the problem or idea to give more background and context. Do not just focus on the negative aspects of the current situation, but also identify some positive aspects that may be beneficial to retain. A few salient examples from existing systems or practices could be used to support those claims. If appropriate, you may conduct this analysis by describing a scenario that illustrates how someone might encounter and resolve the problem.
 
 3. 
 
