---
layout: post
title: Task Review
prevurl: "units/04/03/"
prevtitle: Affinity Diagrams
nexturl: "units/05/01/"
nexttitle: Storyboarding & Wireframing
---

### Due January 25

A task is something that someone does. As you have begun work on your projects, you have thought about what tasks are essential to your user base within the context of your area of focus. In your contextual inquiries, you began [analyzing tasks](https://github.com/mrgrunebaum-hm/mobileapps/blob/master/units/04/Task%20Analysis.png) that are currently part of your users' everyday experiences. Building on what you learned in your contextual inquiry, design six tasks that you believe are potentially crucial to your overall design goal:

  - You should include existing tasks (i.e., tasks users already do) and possibly new tasks (i.e., tasks that will be newly enabled by your design).
  - These should be real world tasks that have details about what users are trying to accomplish (e.g., instead of “scanning TV channels”, details like “scanning TV channels to find a movie”).
  - These tasks should not have any specific relation to the exact designs you will be sketching in the future, nor should they be related to any vision you have for an app or other piece of software.
  - Your six tasks should span a wide range of functionality and difficulty, from easy to hard tasks
  - Please specify how difficult you anticipate each task to be and whether it is new or existing.
  - Try to be creative and have fun in choosing which tasks to support!

Each task should be described in text. Tasks say what is accomplished, leaving open how to accomplish it. Be sure that each task conveys a problem that someone may be faced with and what they need to accomplish, rather than a step-by-step walk-through of a scenario with a particular design. Also, make sure that your tasks are based in real observations from your UX research. If you would like to use scenarios to describe tasks, you are more than welcome to structure all of your task descriptions as scenarios.

To provide a solid rationale for your tasks, connect each task to specific observations and/or themes from your UX research. Include an image of your group's affinity diagram at the top of this post, along with a brief introduction describing what you learned from your UX research, how you analyzed your results, and how this analysis led you to these specific tasks.

### Submission Instructions

No more than 2 pages of text (~1000 words) as a post on your Project Website:

  - Affinity Diagram image and brief introduction to your tasks
  - six task descriptions (one paragraph each)
  
Be prepared to discuss your tasks with other groups in future classes.

### Grading

This milestone will receive qualitative feedback, as well as a mark of complete, partially complete, or incomplete along with further explanation. To complete this assignment you must work to include:

  - Affinity Diagram and introduction
  - six tasks
  - creative choices
  - mix of existing/new
  - ranging easy --> difficult
  - evidence based
  - neat presentation
